Title: NRNB Academy Week 3
Date: 10-08-2016
Authors: Sourav Singh
tags: NRNB,jsbml,SBMLReporter,Java

After the meeting with Andreas Draeger in the second week, We decided to work further on making use of the code for SBML Reporter and check for any functionalities 
that need to be added or any bugs that need fixing for the package.

So, I started off by cloning the Github repository of SBML Reporter, which you can access over [here](https://github.com/sbmlteam/SBMLreporter).Then I proceeded forward by 
Importing the project using Maven and adding them as a library and were able to make use of the library.

After doing the initial setup, I proceeded forward to write a small piece of Java code to check the workings of SBML Reporter:

```java
import java.io.*;
import org.sbml.jsbml.*;
import org.sbml.reporter.AbstractBuilder;
import org.sbml.reporter.ReportDirector;
import org.sbml.reporter.HTMLBuilder;

/* Program to generate a HTML report from an SBML file */

public class SBMLReport {
	
	public static void main(String args[]) throws Exception
	{
		File inputFile = new File(args[0]);
	    File outputDir = new File(args[1]);
	    
	    SBMLDocument doc = SBMLReader.read(inputFile);
	
	AbstractBuilder abstractBuilder = new HTMLBuilder();
    ReportDirector reportDirector = new ReportDirector(abstractBuilder, doc, new File(outputDir.getAbsolutePath() + "/output.html").toPath());
    reportDirector.call();

	
	}
}
```

and 

```java
import java.io.*;
import org.sbml.jsbml.*;
import org.sbml.reporter.AbstractBuilder;
import org.sbml.reporter.ReportDirector;
import org.sbml.reporter.LaTeXBuilder;

/* Program to generate a LaTeX file from a SBML file, which can be used to generate a PDF report of the model */

public class SBMLReport {
	
	public static void main(String args[]) throws Exception
	{
		File inputFile = new File(args[0]);
	    File outputDir = new File(args[1]);
	    
	    SBMLDocument doc = SBMLReader.read(inputFile);
	
	AbstractBuilder abstractBuilder = new LaTeXBuilder();
    ReportDirector reportDirector = new ReportDirector(abstractBuilder, doc, new File(outputDir.getAbsolutePath() + "/output.tex").toPath());
    reportDirector.call();

	
	}
}
```

Both the programs take the directory containing the SBML file and the output directory as an argument from the user and create a HTML and a LaTeX file.
The LaTeX file can be later converted to PDF appropriately 

To check the output which is generated by the program, We downloaded a SBML model from [biomodels.net](biomodels.net), and the related PDF file of the same model.
For my reference, I downloaded the Gardner 1998- Cell Cycle Goldbeter model which you can check out [here](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000008).

After downloading the model and its related PDF report, which was generated using [SBML2LaTeX](http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/25/11/1455); I move onward to generate a HTML report and a tex file which 
I later convert to PDF.

In the meeting with Andreas Draeger, we discussed on the possible differences between the PDF reports obtained from the biomodels website(generated using SBML2LaTeX) and 
the PDF report generated using SBML Reporter. We come across many differences between the both the reports generated, like Missing Glossary or Derived Rate Equations
section and some small formatting issues in the PDF report generated using SBML reporter.

We also took a look on the HTML report generated using the SBML reporter package and found some bugs in display of certain special characters like checkboxes in the column for Reversible Reactions in
the Reactions Definition table.

So after a brief discussion, We decide on experimenting further with the package with other SBML models and working further to check and decide on the features that need to be added in the project, 
bugs that need fixing and putting them up on Github Issues so that development on SBML Reporter can be done nicely.

So far, The NRNB Academy is proceeding really nicely and I am really stoked to work further in the project.
